
.TH CFGFT1 8 "MARCH 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
cfgft1 \- Sangoma S508/FT-1 Configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cfgft1 [
.I -p 
.B HexPortNumber ] [
.I -m 
.B HexMemAddr ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 
The S508/FT-1 (Fractional T1) is Sangoma S508 adapter with an integrated
CSU/DSU unit.  The S508/FT-1 is used to connect data terminal equipment to the 
T1 (1.544 Mbps) or Fractional T1 digital telephone network.   This unit performs
all Bell compatible encoding, decoding, timing and diagnostic responses.

The cfgft1 utility loads the card and then allows the user to pass configuration
commands to the adapter.  The following are the options needed for loading the
card:
 
.TP
.B -p HexPortNumber
The HexPortNumber represents the IO port of the card.  Please ensure that the 
IO port specified matches the jumper settings on the board.  If this option is 
not used then the utility tries to initialize the card at 0x360 (factory default
setting).

.TP
.B -m HexMemAddr
The HexMemAddr represents the Memory Address the utility uses to configure the
card at.  If this option is not used then the utility tries to intialize the 
0xD0000 memory area.  Valid memory addresses are: 0xA0000,0xA2000...0xAE000 / 
0xC0000,0xC2000...0xCE000 / 0xD0000,0xD2000...0xDE000 / 0xE0000, 0xE2000...
0xEE000 

.TP
Once the card has been loaded and intialized you are now ready to configure the
S508/FT-1 card.

.TP
The Sangoma S508/FT-1 DSU has three memory banks:

.IP
1.      The factory default.
.IP
2.      The user configured bank.
.IP
3.      The scratch pad (working memory).

To check the current settings (bank settings), type D0 <ENTER>.
Configuration changes are made as follows:
.IP
1.      Type C <ENTER> to open the configuration mode.
.IP
2.      Change the required settings.
.IP
3.      After making these changes, type D1 <ENTER> to see the temporary  configuration bank.
.IP
4.      If these changes are correct, then type W<ENTER>  to write the configuration to the non-volatile memory.
.IP
5.      Type Q <ENTER> to exit the configuration mode.


.I Commands
.IP
+n      Add channel n (where n is 1-24) to the active list
.IP
-n      Delete channel n (where n is 1-24) from the active list
.IP
M0      Set framing mode to ESF (Extendedsuper Frame)
.IP
M1      Set framing mode to D4
.IP
K0      Set encoding mode to B8ZS
.IP
K1      Set encoding mode to AMI
.IP
L0      Set line build out to CSU (0db) or DSX-1 (0-133ft)
.IP
L1      Set line build out to DSX-1 (133 - 266ft)
.IP
L2      Set line build out to DSX-1 (266 - 399ft)
.IP
L3      Set line build out to DSX-1 (399 - 533ft)
.IP
L4      Set line build out to DSX-1 (533 - 655ft)
.IP
L5      Set line build out to CSU (-7.5 db)
.IP
L6      Set line build out to CSU (-15 db)
.IP
L7      Set line build out to CSU (-22.5 db)
.IP
P0      Set clock mode to normal (SLAVE)
.IP
P1      Set clock mode to master (LDM mode only)
.IP
W       Write configuration to non-volatile memory
.IP
F       Get factory default configuration
.IP
Q       Exit configuration mode and move temporary (scratch pad) configuration to default configuration 
.IP
D0      Display actual configuration
.IP
D1      Display configuration in temporary memory
.IP
E0      Unit does not echo commands sent to it
.IP
E1      Unit echos back commands sent to it
.IP
T0      User test modes enabled
.IP
T1      User test modes disabled

NB: Whenever you have finished your changes, you MUST do a WQ in order for them
to "take".  After that do a D0 to check that the changes have, indeed been written to permanent memory.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are few examples to illustrate the different usage of the cfgft1 command:
.TP 
.I cfgft1 
:  This tries to initialize the card at IO port 0x360 and memory D0000.
.TP
.I cfgft1 -p0x350 
: This tries to initialize the card at IO port 0x350 and memory 0xD0000.
.TP
.I cfgft1 -m0xE0000 
: This tries to initialize the card at IO port 0x360 and memory0xE0000.
.TP
.I cfgft1 -p0x350 -m0xE0000 
: This tries to initialize the card at IO port 0x350 and memory 0xE0000.
 
.TP 
.I Configuring S508/FT-1 example.
Required configuration: Channels 1-3 disabled, channels 22 and 23 enabled Line build set to DSX-1 (399 - 533ft) ESF framing mode Clock mode to normal (slave)

Type: C-1-2-3+21+22K0L3M0P0D1WQ<ENTER>

                OR

C<ENTER>       Open configuration mode

-1-2-3<ENTER>  Remove channels 1, 2 and 3 from the active list

+21+22 <ENTER> Add channels 21 and 22 to the active list

K0<ENTER>      Set the encoding mode to B8ZS

L3<ENTER>      Set the line build out to DSX-1 (399 - 533ft)

M0<ENTER>      Set the framing to ESF

P0<ENTER>      Set the clock mode to normal

D1<ENTER>      Display the temporary configuration before saving

W<ENTER>       Update the user memory

Q<ENTER>       Close the configuration mode

If you are adding or removing many D0 channels, break up the command into 2 or more commands, as the command line buffer has limited length.  For instance, to drop the line speed to 128kbps, you need to remove  channels 3 to 24.

Do:

C<ENTER>

-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11<ENTER>

-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22-23-24<ENTER>

WQ<ENTER>

D0<ENTER>

and the correct configuration should be shown.  ALSO PLEASE REBOOT THE MACHINE AND RUN CFGFT1 UTILITY AGAIN WITH D0 COMMAND TO VERIFY THE CONFIGURATION. 

.SH PINOUTS
RJ-48-s Telco Connector
.IP
4    TTIP               Transmit
.IP
5    TRING              Transmit
.IP
1    RTIP               Receive
.IP
2    RRING              Recieve

.TP
For back-to-back connections, cross connect:
.IP
Side 1          Side 2
.IP
Red             Grey
.IP
Green           Orange
.IP
Grey            Red
.IP
Orange          Green


.SH AUTHOR
.I Jaspreet Singh 
<jaspreet@sangoma.com>, Sangoma Technologies Inc., www.sangoma.com
