
.TH CPIPEMON 8 "MARCH 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
cpipemon \- Cisco HDLC Monitor for Sangoma WAN Cards
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpipemon {
.I option
.B } ip-address upd-port  

.B For flushing specific monitor statistics: 

.B \tcpipemon [
.I f
.B ] {
.I option
.B } ip-address udp-port 

.B For running FT1 specific monitor commands:

.B \tcpipemon [
.I t 
.B ] {
.I option
.B } 
.B ip-address udp-port 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpipemon
is a UDP management monitor for Cisco HDLC. The above section demonstrates the different ways of running the cpipemon command.  We will discuss each method in detail below:

.TP
.I cpipemon {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined Cisco HDLC interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different monitoring options available to the user:

.IP
.B m
Display modem status.
 
.IP
.B a
Display Cisco HDLC firmware version. 

.IP 
.B g 
Display Cisco HDLC Configuration.

.IP 
.B x
Display Link Status.

.IP
.B q
Run Line trace displaying Cisco HDLC data.

.IP
.B qr
Run Line trace displaying Raw data.

.IP
.B j
Display the time since last "router start".

.IP
.B i
Display Global statistics.

.IP
.B e
Display Communication Error statistics.

.IP
.B l
Display Operational statistics.

.TP
.I cpipemon f {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B f
This option flushes all the values associated with the command specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined PPP interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different options available to the user:

.IP
.B i
Flush Global statistics.

.IP
.B e
Flush Communication Error statistics.

.IP
.B l
Flush Operational statistics.

.TP
.I cpipemon t {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP 
.B t
This option allows execution of FT1 specific commands specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined PPP interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP
.B option
The following are the different FT1 monitoring options available to the user:

.IP
.B v
View status of the FT1 CSU/DSU.

.IP
.B s
Perform self test on the FT1.

.IP 
.B l
Peform Line Loop test on the FT1.

.IP
.B d
Perform Digital Loop test on the FT1. 

.IP 
.B r
Perform Remote test on the FT1.

.IP
.B o
Place FT1 in Operational mode.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are few examples to illustrate the different usage of the cpipemon command:
.TP
cpipemon e 192.168.1.27 9002 :  This displays the communications error statistics.
.TP
cpipemon f e  192.138.1.27 9005: This flushes the communications error statiscs.
.TP
cpipemon t l 192.128.1.27 9004: This runs the line loop test on a FT1 board.

.SH AUTHOR
.I Jaspreet Singh <jaspreet@sangoma.com>
Sangoma Technologies Inc., www.sangoma.com
