
.TH FPIPEMON 8 "MARCH 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
fpipemon \- Frame Relay Monitor for Sangoma WAN Cards
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fpipemon {
.I option
.B } ip-address upd-port  

.B For flushing specific monitor statistics: 

.B \tfpipemon [
.I f
.B ] {
.I option
.B } ip-address udp-port 

.B For running Integrated CSU/DSU unit (FT1) specific monitor commands:

.B \tfpipemon [
.I t 
.B ] {
.I option
.B } 
.B ip-address udp-port 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fpipemon
is a UDP management monitor for Frame Relay. The above section demonstrates the different ways of running the fpipemon command.  We will discuss each method in detail below:

.TP
.I fpipemon {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined frame-relay interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different monitoring options available to the user:

.IP
.B s
Display the Link status of your frame-relay interface.
 
.IP
.B m
Display the modem status. 

.IP 
.B l 
Run Line trace displaying frame-relay data.

.IP 
.B lr
Run Line trace displaying Raw data.

.IP
.B ds
Display If_Send Driver statistics. (mainly used for debugging purposes)

.IP
.B di
Display Interrupt Driver statistics. (mainly used for debugging purposes) 

.IP
.B dg
Display General Driver statistics. (mainly used for debugging purposes)

.IP
.B u
Display the time since last "router start".

.IP
.B c
Display Communications error statistics.

.IP
.B g
Display Global statistics.

.IP
.B e
Display Global error statistics.

.IP
.B a
Display list of active DLCI(s).

.IP
.B i <##>
Display dlci specific satitics. Where <##> is the DLCI number. Please make sure to enter the DLCI number when using this option.  For eg:
fpipemon i 27 201.1.2.2 9005 will produce specific statistics on DLCI 27.

.TP
.I fpipemon f {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B f
This option flushes all the values associated with the command specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined frame-relay interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different options available to the user:

.IP 
.B c
Flush Communications error statistics.

.IP
.B g
Flush Global statistics.

.IP
.B e
Flush Global error statistics.

.IP
.B i <##>
Flush dlci specific satistics. Where <##> is the DLCI number. Please make sure to enter the DLCI number when using this option.  For eg:  fpipemon f i 27 201.1.2.2 9005 will flush the specific statistics on DLCI 27.

.IP
.B d
Flush all the driver specific statistics.

.TP
.I fpipemon t {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP 
.B t
This option allows execution of FT1 specific commands specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined frame-relay interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.IP
.B option
The following are the different FT1 monitoring options available to the user:

.IP
.B v
View status of the FT1 CSU/DSU.

.IP
.B s
Perform self test on the FT1.

.IP 
.B l
Peform Line Loop test on the FT1.

.IP
.B d
Perform Digital Loop test on the FT1. 

.IP 
.B r
Perform Remote test on the FT1.

.IP
.B o
Place FT1 in Operational mode.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are few examples to illustrate the different usage of the fpipemon command:
.TP 
fpipemon c 192.168.1.27 9005 :  This displays the communications error statistics.
.TP 
fpipemon f c  192.168.1.27 9005: This flushes the communications error statiscs.
.TP 
fpipemon t s 192.168.1.27 9005: This runs the self test on a FT1 board.
.SH AUTHOR
.I Jaspreet Singh 
<jaspreet@sangoma.com>
