
.TH PPIPEMON 8 "MARCH 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
ppipemon \- PPP Monitor for Sangoma WAN Cards
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppipemon {
.I option
.B } ip-address upd-port  

.B For flushing specific monitor statistics: 

.B \tppipemon [
.I f
.B ] {
.I option
.B } ip-address udp-port 

.B For running FT1 specific monitor commands:

.B \tppipemon [
.I t 
.B ] {
.I option
.B } 
.B ip-address udp-port 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ppipemon
is a UDP management monitor for PPP. The above section demonstrates the different ways of running the ppipemon command.  We will discuss each method in detail below:

.TP
.I ppipemon {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined PPP interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different monitoring options available to the user:
.IP
.B g
Display PPP general configuration.
 
.IP
.B u
Display PPP timers and counters. 

.IP 
.B a 
Display PPP authentication configuration.

.IP 
.B i
Display IP configuration.

.IP
.B x
Display IPX configuration.

.IP
.B s
Display PPP FSM current state. 

.IP
.B n
Display parameters negotiated on last connection or attempt.

.IP
.B c
Display cause for last disconnection.

.IP
.B c
Display Communications error statistics.

.IP
.B m
Display modem status.

.IP
.B q
Run Line trace displaying PPP data.

.IP
.B qr
Run Line trace displaying Raw data.

.IP
.B ds
Display If_Send Driver statistics.(mainly used for debugging purposes)

.IP
.B di
Display Interrupt Driver statistics.(mainly used for debugging purposes)

.IP
.B dg
Display General Driver statistics.(mainly used for debugging purposes)

.IP
.B j
Display the time since last "router start".

.IP
.B l
Display General statistics.

.IP
.B e
Display Communication Error statistics.

.IP
.B p
Display Packet statistics.

.IP
.B r
Display LCP statistics.

.IP
.B b
Display Loopback detection/ LCP error statistics.


.IP
.B o
Display IP Control Protocol (IPCP) statistics. 

.IP
.B y
Display IPX Control Protocol (IPXCP) statistics.

.IP
.B w
Display Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) statistics.

.IP
.B h
Display Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) statistics.

.TP
.I ppipemon f {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP
.B f
This option flushes all the values associated with the command specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined PPP interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP 
.B option   
The following are the different options available to the user:

.IP
.B l
Flush General statistics.

.IP
.B e
Flush Communication Error statistics.

.IP
.B p
Flush Packet statistics.

.IP
.B r
Flush LCP statistics.

.IP
.B b
Flush Loopback detection/ LCP error statistics.


.IP
.B o
Flush IP Control Protocol (IPCP) statistics. 

.IP
.B y
Flush IPX Control Protocol (IPXCP) statistics.

.IP
.B w
Flush Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) statistics.

.IP
.B h
Flush Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) statistics.

.IP
.B d
Flush all driver specific statistics.


.TP
.I ppipemon t {option} ip-address udp-port

.TP 
.B t
This option allows execution of FT1 specific commands specified in the option field.

.TP
.B ip-address
Specify the Point-to-Point address of your defined PPP interface.  To verify this run ifconfig.

.TP
.B udp-port
Specify the udp-port as defined in device section of the router.conf in /etc directory. No value for this defaults to 9000.

.TP
.B option
The following are the different FT1 monitoring options available to the user:

.IP
.B v
View status of the FT1 CSU/DSU.

.IP
.B s
Perform self test on the FT1.

.IP 
.B l
Peform Line Loop test on the FT1.

.IP
.B d
Perform Digital Loop test on the FT1. 

.IP 
.B r
Perform Remote test on the FT1.

.IP
.B o
Place FT1 in Operational mode.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following are few examples to illustrate the different usage of the ppipemon command:
.TP
ppipemon e 192.168.1.27 9002 :  This displays the communications error statistics.
.TP
ppipemon f e  192.138.1.27 9005: This flushes the communications error statistics.
.TP
ppipemon t l 192.128.1.27 9004: This runs the line loop test on a FT1 board.

.SH AUTHOR
.I Jaspreet Singh <jaspreet@sangoma.com>
Sangoma Technologies Inc., www.sangoma.com
