
.TH ROUTER.CONF 8 "MARCH 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
router.conf \- WANPIPE configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION

This is the main router configuration file which defines WAN links and network
interfaces to configure WANPIPE drivers.  The router.conf file in the /etc directory has to editted to make it specific to the WANPIPE hardware and the protocol being used.  The following steps should be followed to ensure proper setup of your WANPIPE driver:

.TP
1) Edit [devices] section

WANPIPE devices are named 'wanpipeN', where N is 1 to 8.  For each adapter installed add a line to the [devices] section as follows:

wanpipeN = {
.I config_id
}, {
.I description
}

where 
.I config_id
is one of the following:

.nf  
WAN_X25 for X.25 link
WAN_FR for frame relay link
WAN_PPP for PPP link
WAN_CHDLC for Cisco HDLC link
WAN_BSC for BiSync Streaming API
.fi

and 
.I description
is an optional description string

For example:

.nf
wanpipe1 = WAN_X.25, X.25 link
wanpipe2 = WAN_FR, frame relay link
wanpipe3 = WAN_PPP, PPP link
wanpipe4 = WAN_CHDLC, Cisco HDLC link
wanpipe5 = WAN_BSC, BiSync Streaming API
.fi

.TP
2) Edit [interfaces] section

This section defines the Network interfaces created by the Configure script.  For each interface defined add a line to the [interfaces] section as follows:

{
.I 
name
} = {
.I device
},{
.I media_addr
},{
.I used_by
},{
.I description
}

where:  
.IP
.I name     
represents name of the interface defined in (/usr/lib/router/interfaces/)
.IP
.I device   
represents name of the device (from the [devices] section) this interface is associated with
.IP
.I media_addr  
represents media address for this logical channel, if applicable. IF NO MEDIA
ADDRESS IS SPECIFIED THEN ENTER A SPACE IN THIS FIELD.
.IP
.I used_by
represents whether the interface is used for WANPIPE or API.  ONLY WAN_BSC 
supports API tag.
.IP
.I description 
description of this interface (optional)

Media address syntax is device and media specific.  The convention is as follows:

for X.25 permanent virtual circuit use PVC number in decimal notation

for X.25 switched virtual circuit use '@' character followed by the X.25
destination address in decimal notation

for Frame relay permanent virtual use DLCI number in decimal notation circuit

For example:
.IP
wan0 = wanpipe1, @123456, WANPIPE, X.25 connection to the branch office 1 (SVC)
.IP
wan1 = wanpipe1, 1, WANPIPE, X.25 PVC connection to the branch office 2 (PVC)
.IP
wan2 = wanpipe2, 16, WANPIPE, frame relay connection to the branch office 3
.IP
wan3 = wanpipe2, 17, WANPIPE, frame relay connection to ISP
.IP
< no media address is used >
.IP
ppp0   = wanpipe3, , PPP , WANPIPE, link to office 1
.IP
chdlc0 = wanpipe4, , WANPIPE, Cisco HDLC link to office 2
.IP
bsync0 = wanpipe5, , API, Bisync interface for receiving data

.TP
3) Edit device private configuration section

For each WANPIPE device defined in the [devices] section create a section with the same name, i.e. for the device wanpipe1 create a section [wanpipe1], for the device wanpipe2 create a section [wanpipe2] and so on.


This section includes all the card specific parameters with additonal protocol specific parameters if applicable.  With this section you can configure all the WANPIPE cards.  However for the Integrated CSU/DSU (FT1) boards you MUST also configure them using the FT1 CONFIGURATION UTILITY called cfgft1 found at /usr/sbin
directory.


The following explains the keywords used in device private configuration section and states whether they are mandatory or optional. It also states which keywords are protocol specific.  

.IP
.I IOPort
Adapter's I/O port address.  Make sure there is no conflict. (Mandatory for all cards and protocols)

.IP
.I IRQ
Adapter's interrupt request level.  Make sure there is no conflict. (Mandatory for all cards and protocol)

.IP 
.I MemAddr 
Address of the adapter shared memory window.  If commented out the memory address is determined automatically. (Optional)

.IP
.I Firmware
Name of the adapter firmware (including path).  (Mandatory for all cards)
Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:
.IP 
FRAME RELAY
Available options are: 
.nf
For 508 cards: /usr/lib/router/wanpipe/fr508.sfm
.fi
.IP
PPP
Available options are:
.nf
For 508 cards: /usr/lib/router/wanpipe/ppp508.sfm
.fi
.IP
CISCO HDLC
Available options are: 
.nf
For 508 cards: /usr/lib/router/wanpipe/chdlc508.sfm
.fi
.IP
X25
Available options are:
.nf
For 508 cards: /usr/lib/router/wanpipe/x25_508.sfm
.fi
.IP
BiSync Streaming API
Available options are:
.nf
For 502E/503 cards: /usr/lib/router/wanpipe/bstrm502.sfm
.fi

.IP
.I Interface
Physical interface type. Available options (508 cards) are:
.IP
RS232 :
RS-232C interface (V.10)
.IP
V35 :
V.35 interface (V.11/RS-422/RS-485/X.21)

Does not apply to FT1 cards.

.IP
.I Clocking
Source of the adapter transmit and receive clock signals.  Available options are:
.IP
External :
Clock is provided externally (e.g. by the modem or CSU/DSU).  Use this for FT1 boards.
.IP
Internal :
Clock is generated on the adapter.  When there are two Sangoma Cards back to back set clocking to Internal on one of the cards.

.IP
.I BaudRate
Data transfer rate in bits per second.  These values are meaningful if internal clocking is selected.  (like in a back-to-back testing configuration) Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:

.IP
FRAME RELAY, PPP and CISCO HDLC
Typical values are:

.nf
   9600            9.6  kbps
  19200           19.2  kbps
  38400           38.4  kbps
  56000           56    kbps
  64000           64    kbps
 128000          128    kbps
1544000          1.544  Mbps (T-1)
2048000          2      Mbps (E-1)
.fi

.IP
X25
Typical values are:

.nf
  9600            9.6 kbps
 19200           19.2 kbps
 38400           38.4 kbps
 56000           56   kbps
 64000           64   kbps
128000          128   kbps
.fi

.IP
.I MTU
Maximum transmit unit size (in bytes).  This value limits the maximum size of the data packet that can be sent over the WAN link, including any encapsulation header that router may add.  It usually has to be not less than the largest MTU of all interfaces configured for this link plus WAN media header size (if any), unless the WAN driver can perform fragmentation of data packets.  Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:
.IP                                
FRAME RELAY
Note that this also includes header information required for encapsulating higher level protocols such as TCP/IP and IPX.  The maximum MTU size supported by the adapter is 4096 bytes.  Default value is 1500.

.IP
X25
This value defines the maximum size of the X.25 data packet.  Available options  are:
.nf 
  64
 128
 256
 512
1024
.fi
Note that X.25 driver provides for packet fragmentation, so that MTUs of the network interfaces using X.25 link can be as large as needed

.IP
PPP
The MTU value specified is used for Local Maximum-Receive-Unit(MRU)/MTU and Minimum Remote MRU.  Recommended value for PPP is 1500.

.IP
CISCO HDLC
The MTU value specified is used for Maximum length of the Cisco HDLC data field.Range is 300 - 15354.  Recommended value is 1500.

.IP
.I UDPPORT
The UDP port to be used for UDP management by the monitor (explained later).  The monitor utilities like fpipemon and pipemon should refer to the udpport defined here.  
                
.IP 
.I Station
Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:

.IP 
FRAME RELAY
This parameter specifies whether the adapter should operate as a Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) or emulate a frame relay switch (Access Node).  Available options are:

.nf
CPE     CPE mode (default)
Node    Access Node (switch emulation mode)
.fi

.IP
PPP
Does not Apply.

.IP
CISCO HDLC
Does not Apply.

.IP
X25
This parameter defines whether the adapter should operate as a Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) or Data Circuit Equipment (DCE).  Normally, you should select DTE mode.  DCE mode is primarily used in back-to-back testing configurations. Available options are:

.nf
DTE     DTE mode (default)
DCE     DCE mode
.fi

.IP
.I TTL
This keyword defines the Time To Live for a UDP packet used by the monitoring system.  The user can control the scope of a UDP packet by associating a number that decrements with each hop.  Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:

.IP
FRAME RELAY
Any value between 0 to 255.
.IP
PPP
Any value between 0 to 255.
.IP
CISCO HDLC
Any value between 0 to 255.
.IP 
X25 
Currently not implemented.

.IP
.I IPX
This parameter either enables or disables the use of IPX data.  YES or NO (default) is allowed.  (See also wanpipe.ipx) Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:

.IP 
FRAME RELAY 
Supported for multiple channels.

.IP
PPP
Supported.

.IP
CISCO HDLC
Does not apply.  Cisco HDLC only supports IP.

.IP 
X25
Supported for multiple channel.

.IP
.I NETWORK
This parameters specifies the IPX Network Number.  Can be any unique 8 digit hexadecimal number. The default is 0xDEADBEEF.  (See also wanpipe.ipx)  Notice the difference for each PROTOCOL:

.IP
FRAME RELAY
Supported for multiple channel.

.IP
PPP
Supported.

.IP
CISCO HDLC
Does not apply.

.IP                                
X25
Supported for multiple channel.

.IP
.I Signalling      
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****
                        
This parameter specifies frame relay link management type.  Available options are:

.nf 
ANSI    ANSI T1.617 Annex D (default)
Q933    ITU Q.933A
LMI     LMI
.fi

.IP
.I DLCINUMBER       
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This parameter is used to define logical channels activated by the adapter configured as an Access Node.  Number of DLCI should not exceed 100 for the S508 adapter.  Default value for DLCINUMBER parameter is 0.  This is typically used in a back-to-back testing configuration.

.IP
.I T391            
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This is the Link Integrity Verification Timer value in seconds.  It should be within a range from 5 to 30 and is relevant only if adapter is configured as CPE.

.IP
.I T392            
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This is the Polling Verification Timer value in seconds. It should be within a range from 5 to 30 and is relevant only if adapter is configured as Access Node.  
.IP
.I N391            
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This is the Full Status Polling Cycle Counter. Its value should be within a range from 1 to 255 and is relevant only if adapter is configured as CPE.

.IP
.I N392            
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This is the Error Threshold Counter. Its value should be within a range from 1 to 10 and is relevant for both CPE and Access Node configurations.

.IP
.I N393            
*****ONLY APPLIES TO FRAME RELAY PROTOCOL*****

This is the Monitored Events Counter. Its value should be within a range from 1 to 10 and is relevant for both CPE and Access Node configurations.

.IP
.I LowestPVC, HighestPVC    
*****ONLY APPLIES TO X25 PROTOCOL*****
               
These parameters are used to define permanent virtual circuit range as assigned by your the X.25 service provider.  Valid values are between 0 and 4095.  Default values for both parameters are 0, meaning that no PVCs are assigned.  Note that maximum number of both permanent and virtual cuircuits should not exceed 255.

.IP
.I LowestSVC, HighestSVC     
*****ONLY APPLIES TO X25 PROTOCOL*****
               
These parameters are used to define switched virtual circuit range as assigned by your the X.25 service provider.  Valid values are between 0 and 4095.  Defaultvalues for both parameters are 0, meaning that no SVCs are assigned.  Note that maximum number of both permanent and virtual cuircuits should not exceed 255.  
                
.IP
.I HDCLWindow       
*****ONLY APPLIES TO X25 PROTOCOL*****

This parameter defines the size of the HDLC frame window, i.e. the maximum number of sequentially numbered Information frames that can be sent without waiting for acknowledgement.  Valid values are from 1 to 7.  Default is 7.
 
.IP
.I PacketWindow    
*****ONLY APPLIES TO X25 PROTOCOL*****

This parameter defines the default size of the X.25 packet window, i.e. the maximum number of sequentially numberred data packets that can be sent without waiting for acknowledgement.  Valid values are from 1 to 7.  Default is 2.

.IP
.I CCITTCompat     
*****ONLY APPLIES TO X25 PROTOCOL*****

This parameter defines CCITT X.25 compatibility level.  Available options are: 
.IP
1988   1988 version of the Recommendation X.25 (default) 
.IP
1984   1984 version of the Recommendation X.25
.IP
1980   1980 version of the Recommendation X.25

.IP
.I AUTHENTICATOR   
*****ONLY APPLIES TO PPP PROTOCOL*****

This paramater decides whether your local host will be the authenticator or not.  Options : YES or NO.  

If your local side is the authenticator then your side will require that the authentication is passed before the link can be established.  If your local side is not the authenticator then your peer side will determine if any authentication is required or not.

.IP
.I IP_MODE 
*****ONLY APPLIES TO PPP PROTOCOL*****
This parameter decides whether you want to request local and remote IP addresses
or NOT.  Options: STATIC or PEER.  If you are configured as STATIC then your 
side will not request for IP addresses. If you are configured as PEER then your 
side will request the remote end for local and remote IP address. 
Default: STATIC 

.IP
.I IGNORE_DCD
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter decides whether DCD will be ignored or not when determining 
active link status for Cisco HDLC.  Options: YES or NO. Default: NO

.IP
.I IGNORE_CTS
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter decides whether CTS will be ignored or not when determining 
active link status for Cisco HDLC.  Options: YES or NO. Default: NO

.IP
.I IGNORE_KEEPALIVE 
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter decides whether Keep alives will be ignored or not when 
determining active link status for Cisco HDLC. Options YES of NO. Default: NO

.IP
.I KEEPALIVE_TX_TIMER 
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter states the interval between keep alive.  If you are set to ignore
keepalives then this value is meaningless. The value of this parameter is given
in milliseconds. Options: 0 - 60000 ms. Default: 10000 ms

.IP
.I KEEPALIVE_RX_TIMER 
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter states the interval to expect keepalives If you are set to ignore
keepalives then this value is meaningless. The value of this parameter is given
in milliseconds.  Options 10 - 60000 ms. Default: 10000 ms

.IP
.I KEEPALIVE_ERR_MARGIN 
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****                        
This parameter states the number of consecutive keep alive timeouts before 
bringing down the link.  If  you are set to ignore keepalives then this value is
meaning less.  Options: 1 - 20.  Default: 3

.IP
.I SLARP_TIMER     
*****ONLY APPLIES TO CISCO HDLC PROTOCOL*****
This parameter decides whether to send SLARP packets or not.  Options: 0 - 
60000ms.  If 0 is specified then no SLARP packets are transmitted. Any non zero
value in the range specifies the time in milliseconds between sending SLARP 
request. Default: 5000 ms.


.TP
4) Edit/Create Interface private configuration section

This section applies only to FRAME RELAY, PPP, CISCO HDLC and X25 protocol. For every interface listed in the [interfaces] section create another section underneath all the private device configuration section.  For instance for interface "fr1" create section [fr1], for interface "svc1" create section [svc1] and so on.  If these sections are not defined then all the parameters in the section are assigned default value.

For FRAME RELAY protocol the following parameter(s) should be added in the interfaces section:

.IP
.I MULTICAST
This parameter either enables or disables discarding packets with a multicast source address.  Available options are:
.IP
YES     
Do not discard packets with a multicast source addr.
.IP
NO 
Discard packets with a multicast source addr.

Default is set to NO.

.IP 
.I CIR
This parameter enables or disables Committed Information rate on the board.  
Options are 1 - 512 kbps.  PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS VALUE REFERS TO ONLY 
TRANSFERING DATA PACKETS.  If this parameter is commented out then CIR for that
interface is disabled.

.IP
.I BC
This paramater states the Committed Burst Size. Options are 1 - 512 kbits.

.IP
.I BE
This parameter states the Excess Burst Size. Options are 0 - 512 kbits.
  
.IP
.I INARP
This parameter enables or disables transmission of Inverse Arp packets.

.IP
.I INARPINTERVAL
This parameter sets the time interval in seconds between Inverse ARP Request. 
Default is 10 sec 

For X25 protocol the following parameter(s) should be added in the interfaces section:

.IP
.I IDLETIMEOUT
The time in seconds before an SVC will disconnect if there is no data over the link.  The default is 90 seconds.

.IP
.I HOLDTIMEOUT
The time in seconds to wait before retrying a failed connection.  The default is 10 seconds.


For PPP protocol the following parameter(s) should be added in the interfaces section:

.IP
.I MULTICAST
This parameter either enables or disables discarding packets with a multicast 
source address.  Available options are:
.IP
YES
Do not discard packets with a multicast source addr.
.IP
NO
Discard packets with a multicast source addr.

Default is set to NO.

.IP
.I PAP
This parameter enables or disables the use of PAP.  Available options are:
.IP
YES     
Enable PAP
.IP
NO
Disable PAP

This option is needed regardless of the station being an AUTHENTICATOR.

.IP
.I CHAP 
This parameter enables or disables the use of CHAP.  Available options are:
.IP
YES     
Enable CHAP
.IP
NO
Disable CHAP

This option is needed regardless of the station being an AUTHENTICATOR.

.IP
.I USERID
This parameter is dependent on the AUTHENTICATOR parameter.  If AUTHENTICATOR is
set to NO then you will simply enter in your login name that the other side 
specified to you.

If AUTHENTICATOR is set to YES then you will have to maintain a list of all the 
users that are valid for authentication purposes. If your list contains ONLY 
ONE MEMBER then simply enter in the login name.  If the list contains more than 
one member then follow the below format:

USERID = LOGIN1 / LOGIN2 / LOGIN3....so on

The "/" separators are VERY IMPORTANT if you have more than one member to support.

.IP
.I PASSWD
This parameter is dependent on the AUTHENTICATOR parameter.  If AUTHENTICATOR is
set to NO then you will simply enter in your password for the login name that 
the other side specified to you.

If AUTHENTICATOR is set to YES then you will have to maintain a list of all the
passwords for all the users that are valid for authentication purposes.  If your
list contains ONLY ONE MEMBER then simply enter in the password for the 
corresponding login name in the USERID parameter.  If the list contains more 
than one member then follow the format below:

PASSWD = PASS1 / PASS2 / PASS3....so on

The "/" separators are VERY IMPORTANT if you have more than one member to 
support.  The ORDER of your passwords is very important.  They correspond to the
order of the userids.

.IP
.I SYSNAME
This parameter is dependent on the AUTHENTICATOR parameter.  If AUTHENTICATOR is
set to NO then you can simply ignore this parameter. (comment it )

If AUTHENTICATOR is set to YES then you have to enter Challenge system name 
which can be no longer than 31 characters.

.SH FILES
.TP 
.I /etc/router.conf
Configuration file for WANPIPE
.TP
.I /usr/lib/router/samples/router.conf
Sample Configuration file for WANPIPE
.SH AUTHOR
.I Jaspreet Singh 
<jaspreet@sangoma.com>
